# SARS-CoV-2 inspector
## Description
 SARS-CoV-2 inspector repository includes python 3 scripts intended for SARS-CoV-2 pangenomic data analysis and a web interface for interactive data visualization.
 The scripts in “code” folder can be used as command line executables (embedded help available by the option “-h”). They can be coupled in different ways in order to constitute alternative pipelines. The required starting input data are a multifasta and a metadata file that can be downloaded from GISAID (first you will need to register and comply to the “Terms of use”). Plotly dash and acessory modules are used for the web interface.


## Install 
Section dedicated to describe the install process

## Repository layout 
Name (type: file/folder) : description

    1  analysis (folder): to organize analysis result files
     1.1  01 (folder): results of individual genome analysis. Main table for subsequent analysis.
     1.2  02a (folder): results of non-redundant genotype analysis.
     1.3  02b (folder): results of the SNPs analysis
     1.4  02c (folder): results of qPCR and conservation analysis
     1.5  02d (folder): results of frequency analysis of co-occurring mutations
    2  code (folder): contains python code files corresponding to the different type of analysis
     2.1  inspector (folder): contains the python code for the web interface intended for visualization
     2.2  01a_getAllGenomesTable_Next-2gz.py (file, python 3 executable): script that outputs the individual genomes table - a compilation of genome sequences defined by their inherent SNPs and relevant metadata.
     2.3  01b_filterGenomesTable_Next-2gz.py (file, python 3 executable): script that filters the individual genomes table generated by “01a_getAllGenomesTable_Next-2gz.py” following user options.
     2.4  02a_getGenotypeTable_2gz.py (file): script that outputs the genotypes table using the tables generated by 2.2 or 2.3 as input.
     2.5  02b_getSNPTable_2gz.py (file) : script that outputs the SNPs table using the tables generated by 2.2 or 2.3 as input.
     2.6  02c_getConsTable+qPCR_2gz.py (file) : script that outputs the conservation table and individual qPCR set analysis using the tables generated by 2.2 or 2.3 as input.
     2.7  02d_getCoFreq_2gz.py (file): outputs the information about co-occurring mutation in genomes harboring a given a target mutation.
    3  data (folder): organize required data
     3.1  genomes (folder) : download GISAID’s Genomic epidemiology "FASTA" and "metadata" files here.
     3.2  misc (folder): container for useful accessory files
         3.2.1  country-and-continent-codes-list.tsv (file): table containing country names and codes.
         3.2.2  NC_045512_ref_china.fa (file): the reference genome of the original SARS-CoV-2 strain in fasta format.
         3.2.3  NC_045512.gff (file): the annotation of the reference genome in GFF format.
         3.2.4  COV2_TaqMan_assays.tsv (file): table containing qPCR oligonucleotide information.


## information and use
Secondary scripts (02a, 02b, etc) can deal with compressed (tsv.gz) or uncompressed tab separated files (.tsv)
